Description
===========

Some code to use to generate the itinerary for going through the book [Land of Lisp](http://landoflisp.com/). The itinerary is written in the input dir, then it is processed and kicked out in various formats to the output dir. I _really_ enjoyed this project, it was quick and fun, and since I defined the "dsl" first, was very outside-in.

There are three output formats. The only one with any polish is the one I paid for the template, "style4", you can see what it looks like at [http://students.cs.wichita.edu/~jjcheek/](http://students.cs.wichita.edu/~jjcheek/).

Usage
=====

Using Ruby ≥ 1.9.1

    rake

Credits
=======

"style4" theme purchased from [theme forest](http://themeforest.net/item/stylish-404-error-page-5-color-schemes/116427).

Lisp Alien image used with permission from Conrad Barski.

---------------------------------------

**This code is unmaintained.** 

_If you do something interesting with it, let me know so I can be happy._

---------------------------------------

Copyright (c) 2010 Joshua Cheek

 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
 of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
 in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
 to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
 copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
 furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
 all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 
 The theme "style4" is copyright Fusion Media, its style sheet and images must be purchased from
 [http://themeforest.net/item/stylish-404-error-page-5-color-schemes/116427](http://themeforest.net/item/stylish-404-error-page-5-color-schemes/116427)
 
 The Lisp Alien taken from the cover of _Land of Lisp_ belongs to Conrad Barski,
 and you must get permission from him before using it.

 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
 IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
 FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
 AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
 LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
 OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
 THE SOFTWARE.
